doc: add new useful V8 option (#42575)
nodejs/node: doc/api/cli.md

$ node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js
```

### `--max_semi_space_size=SIZE` (in megabytes)

Sets the maximum
[semi-space](https://www.memorymanagement.org/glossary/s.html#semi.space)
size for V8's [scavenge](https://v8.dev/blog/orinoco-parallel-scavenger)
garbage collector in MiB.
Increasing the max size of a semi-space may bring

> throughput improvement for Node.js and the cost is more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
throughput improvement for Node.js at the cost of more```

memory consumption (see [#42511](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).

_The default value is
16MiB for 64-bit systems and 8MiB for 32-bit systems.

> The recommended value is 64MiB or 128MiB if your system has enough

Reviewer: I'm wondering if there a rational we can include for choosing these as the recommendation?

Author: Actually, there isn't too much optional value for the 'max_semi_space_size', because V8 did the [round up](https://chromium.googlesource.com/v8/v8.git/+/refs/heads/main/src/heap/heap.cc#5156) operation to make sure the 'max_semi_space_size' is the power of 2. So, only if we set the value of 'max_semi_space_size' to 16MiB, 32MiB, 64MiB, 128MiB, 256MiB and so on, the behavior is what we expected. I tuned these value on WebTooling and Ghost.js workloads, the result shows that 128MiB is the optimal configuration for both of these workloads.
![result](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/88813722/160621733-140758a1-b172-4549-a181-e83fa7a79747.png)
I don't know if it is appropriate to put this image into the document. So I just put the link of issue [#42511](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511) in the document.

Reviewer 2: I'd refrain from recommending specific values, just that higher values can give better throughput but the reader should benchmark that.

It should also mention that the size is effectively tripled because there is more than one semi space. Observe:
```
$ for MB in 16 32 64 128; do
    node --max_semi_space_size=$MB --max_old_space_size=16 -p \
    'const MB = 1<<20; (v8.getHeapStatistics().heap_size_limit - 16*MB) / MB';
  done
48
96
192
384
```

Author: @bnoordhuis Thanks for your suggestion! I have updated the patch to guide users to choose the max_semi_space_size for themselves.

$ node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js
```

### `--max_semi_space_size=SIZE` (in megabytes)

Sets the maximum
[semi\_space](https://www.memorymanagement.org/glossary/s.html#semi.space)
size for V8's [scavenge](https://v8.dev/blog/orinoco-parallel-scavenger)
garbage collector.

> Increase the value of max\_semi\_space\_size may bring

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Increasing the value of max\_semi\_space\_size may bring
```

the throughput improvement for node and the cost is more memory consumption.

> The acutal throughput improvement and memory consumption

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The actual throughput improvement and memory consumption
```

are relevant to your application
([reference](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).

_The default max\_semi\_space\_size is

> 16MB for 64bit system and 8MB for 32bit system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
16MB for 64-bit systems and 8MB for 32-bit systems.
```

> The recommand value is 64MB or 128MB if your system have enough memory._

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The recommended value is 64MB or 128MB if your system has enough
memory._
```

$ node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js
```

### `--max_semi_space_size=SIZE` (in megabytes)

Sets the maximum
[semi\_space](https://www.memorymanagement.org/glossary/s.html#semi.space)
size for V8's [scavenge](https://v8.dev/blog/orinoco-parallel-scavenger)
garbage collector.

> Increase the value of max\_semi\_space\_size may bring
> the throughput improvement for node and the cost is more memory consumption.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Increasing the value of max\_semi\_space\_size may bring
throughput improvement for Node.js and the cost is more
memory consumption.
```

> Increase the value of max\_semi\_space\_size may bring
> the throughput improvement for node and the cost is more memory consumption.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Increasing the value of max\_semi\_space\_size may bring
throughput improvement for Node.js and the cost is more
memory consumption.
```

$ node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js
```

### `--max_semi_space_size=SIZE` (in megabytes)

Sets the maximum

> [semi\_space](https://www.memorymanagement.org/glossary/s.html#semi.space)

Reviewer 4: memorymanagement.org uses `semi-space`, V8 docs uses `semispace`. The V8 `--help` also uses `semi-space`, we should probably stick with that.
```suggestion
[semi-space](https://www.memorymanagement.org/glossary/s.html#semi.space)
```

size for V8's [scavenge](https://v8.dev/blog/orinoco-parallel-scavenger)

> garbage collector.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
garbage collector in MiB.
```

Based on https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/974ab4060fe3eff74dc0a62a5a27d516738f4c55/deps/v8/src/heap/heap.cc#L5012-L5020 https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/974ab4060fe3eff74dc0a62a5a27d516738f4c55/deps/v8/src/common/globals.h#L33-L34

> Increasing the value of max\_semi\_space\_size may bring

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Increasing the max size of a semi-space may bring
```
or
```suggestion
Passing a larger value to `--max_semi_space_size` may bring
```

throughput improvement for Node.js and the cost is more
memory consumption.
The actual throughput improvement and memory consumption
are relevant to your application

> ([reference](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure I understand this sentence, do you mean it's relevant to any Node.js application, and if so, how do you know?

Author: I tuned the max_semi_space_size value and tested it on two workloads, this is the results:
![img](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/88813722/160621733-140758a1-b172-4549-a181-e83fa7a79747.png)
From the figure we can see that the trend of throughput improve are similar on both workloads, but the absolute value are different. I just want the user to test and choose the optimal configuration for their own application.

> memory consumption.
> The actual throughput improvement and memory consumption
> are relevant to your application
> ([reference](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
memory consumption (see [#42511](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).
```

> _The default max\_semi\_space\_size is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
_The default value is
```

> 16MB for 64-bit systems and 8MB for 32-bit systems.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
16MiB for 64-bit systems and 8MiB for 32-bit systems.
```

> The recommended value is 64MB or 128MB if your system has enough

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The recommended value is 64MiB or 128MiB if your system has enough
```

$ node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js
```

### `--max-semi-space-size=SIZE` (in megabytes)

> Sets the maximum [semi-space][] size for V8's [scavenge garbage collector][] in MiB.
> Increasing the max size of a semi-space may improve throughput for Node.js at the
> cost of more memory consumption.
> 
> Since the young generation size of the V8 heap is three times (see
> [`YoungGenerationSizeFromSemiSpaceSize`][] in V8) the size of the semi-space, an
> increase of 1 MiB to semi-space applies to each of the three individual semi spaces
> and causes the heap size to increase by 3 MiB. The throughput improvement depends
> on your workload (see [#42511](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).
> 
> The default value is 16 MiB for 64-bit systems and 8 MiB for 32-bit systems. To get the
> best configuration for your application, you should try different max-semi-space-size
> values when running benchmarks for your application.
> 
> For example, benchmark on a 64-bit systems:
> 
> ```bash
> for MiB in 16 32 64 128; do
>     node --max-semi-space-size=$MiB index.js
> done
> ```
> 

Reviewer 4: To fix the linter error:
```suggestion
Sets the maximum [semi-space][] size for V8's [scavenge garbage collector][] in
MiB (megabytes).
Increasing the max size of a semi-space may improve throughput for Node.js at
the cost of more memory consumption.

Since the young generation size of the V8 heap is three times (see
[`YoungGenerationSizeFromSemiSpaceSize`][] in V8) the size of the semi-space, an
increase of 1 MiB to semi-space applies to each of the three individual
semi-spaces and causes the heap size to increase by 3 MiB. The throughput
improvement depends on your workload (see [#42511][]).

The default value is 16 MiB for 64-bit systems and 8 MiB for 32-bit systems. To
get the best configuration for your application, you should try different
max-semi-space-size values when running benchmarks for your application.

For example, benchmark on a 64-bit systems:

```bash
for MiB in 16 32 64 128; do
    node --max-semi-space-size=$MiB index.js
done
```

[#42511]: https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511
```

Author: Thanks!

$ node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js
```

> ### `--max_semi_space_size=SIZE` (in megabytes)

Reviewer 5: Use dashes (`-`) for consistency with `cli.md`.
> All options, including V8 options, allow words to be separated by both dashes (`-`) or underscores (`_`). For example, `--pending-deprecation` is equivalent to `--pending_deprecation`.
_(src: https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#options)_

---
```suggestion
### `--max-semi-space-size=SIZE` (in megabytes)
```

Author: @peteriman Thanks for your suggestions! I have updated the PR, this is the related [patch](https://github.com/JialuZhang-intel/node/commit/0dfd5e5dbdd748dcd6bfd40c11fed303dfebd4a1).

Sets the maximum
[semi-space](https://www.memorymanagement.org/glossary/s.html#semi.space)
size for V8's [scavenge](https://v8.dev/blog/orinoco-parallel-scavenger)
garbage collector in MiB.

> Increasing the semi-space size by 1MiB will

Reviewer 5: Added reason and reference for clarity.
Formatted size (with trailing space before unit) for consistency with `cli.md`.

---
```suggestion
As there is more than one semi-space ([#42950](https://github.com/nodejs/node/discussions/42950)),
increasing the semi-space size by 1 MiB will
```

Author: I used the related [source code](https://chromium.googlesource.com/v8/v8.git/+/refs/heads/main/src/heap/heap.cc#328) from V8 to explain the tripled relationship between memory consumption and semi-space size. I think this is more convincible.

Reviewer 5: Agreed. But I still think it's a little unclear in the new changes and I will start a new review to address that, hopefully.

> cause the heap size of V8 to increase by 3MiB,

Reviewer 5: Formatted size (with trailing space before unit) for consistency with `cli.md`.

---
```suggestion
cause the heap size of V8 to increase by 3 MiB,
```

but the throughput improvement depends on your workload
(see [#42511](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).

The default value is

> 16MiB for 64-bit systems and 8MiB for 32-bit systems.

Reviewer 5: Formatted size (with trailing space before unit) for consistency with `cli.md`.

---
```suggestion
16 MiB for 64-bit systems and 8 MiB for 32-bit systems.
```

To get the best configuration for your application,

> you should try different max\_semi\_space\_size values

Reviewer 5: Use dashes (`-`) for consistency with `cli.md`.
> All options, including V8 options, allow words to be separated by both dashes (`-`) or underscores (`_`). For example, `--pending-deprecation` is equivalent to `--pending_deprecation`.
_(src: https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#options)_

---
```suggestion
you should try different max-semi-space-size values
```

when running benchmarks for your application.

For example, benchmark on a 64-bit systems:

```console

> for MB in 16 32 64 128; do

Reviewer 5: Added `$` console prefix for consistency with `cli.md`.

---
```suggestion
$ for MB in 16 32 64 128; do
```

Author: I changed the code style into `bash`.

>     node --max_semi_space_size=$MB app.js

Reviewer 5: Use `index.js` instead of `app.js` for consistency with `cli.md`.
Use dashes (`-`) for consistency with `cli.md`.
> All options, including V8 options, allow words to be separated by both dashes (`-`) or underscores (`_`). For example, `--pending-deprecation` is equivalent to `--pending_deprecation`.
_(src: https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#options)_

---
```suggestion
    node --max-semi-space-size=$MB index.js
```

> done

Reviewer 5: Added indentation due to the addition of the `$` console prefix.

---
```suggestion
  done
```

$ node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js
```

### `--max-semi-space-size=SIZE` (in megabytes)

Sets the maximum [semi-space][] size for V8's
[scavenge garbage collector][] in MiB.

> Increasing the max size of a semi-space may bring

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Increasing the max size of a semi-space may
```

> throughput improvement for Node.js at the cost of more

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
improve throughput for Node.js at the cost of more
```

memory consumption.

> Since the young generation size of V8 heap is three times

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Since the young generation size of the V8 heap is three times
```

> (see [`YoungGenerationSizeFromSemiSpaceSize`][] implement in V8)

Reviewer 5: Typo here? Either ~~implement~~ or implementation.

> the size of semi-space, an increase of 1 MiB to semi-space will

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
the size of the semi-space, an increase of 1 MiB to semi-space applies
```

> triple and cause the heap size to increase by 3 MiB.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
to each of the three individual semi spaces and
causes the heap size to increase by 3 MiB.
```

$ node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js
```

### `--max-semi-space-size=SIZE` (in megabytes)

> Sets the maximum [semi-space][] size for V8's
> [scavenge garbage collector][] in MiB.
> Increasing the max size of a semi-space may
> improve throughput for Node.js at the cost of more
> memory consumption.
> Since the young generation size of the V8 heap is three times
> (see [`YoungGenerationSizeFromSemiSpaceSize`][] in V8)
> the size of the semi-space, an increase of 1 MiB to semi-space applies
> to each of the three individual semi spaces and
> causes the heap size to increase by 3 MiB.
> The throughput improvement depends on your workload
> (see [#42511](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).
> 
> The default value is
> 16 MiB for 64-bit systems and 8 MiB for 32-bit systems.
> To get the best configuration for your application,
> you should try different max-semi-space-size values
> when running benchmarks for your application.

Reviewer 6: Nit: The very short line lengths make this a bit more difficult to read.

```suggestion
Sets the maximum [semi-space][] size for V8's [scavenge garbage collector][] in MiB.
Increasing the max size of a semi-space may improve throughput for Node.js at the
cost of more memory consumption.

Since the young generation size of the V8 heap is three times (see
[`YoungGenerationSizeFromSemiSpaceSize`][] in V8) the size of the semi-space, an
increase of 1 MiB to semi-space applies to each of the three individual semi spaces
and causes the heap size to increase by 3 MiB. The throughput improvement depends
on your workload (see [#42511](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).

The default value is 16 MiB for 64-bit systems and 8 MiB for 32-bit systems. To get the
best configuration for your application, you should try different max-semi-space-size
values when running benchmarks for your application.
```

Author: Thanks @jasnell, it looks better after adjust the line lengths.

$ node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js
```

### `--max-semi-space-size=SIZE` (in megabytes)

Sets the maximum
[semi-space](https://www.memorymanagement.org/glossary/s.html#semi.space)
size for V8's [scavenge](https://v8.dev/blog/orinoco-parallel-scavenger)
garbage collector in MiB.
Increasing the max size of a semi-space may bring
throughput improvement for Node.js at the cost of more
memory consumption.
Since the [young generation](https://v8.dev/blog/orinoco-parallel-scavenger)
size of V8 heap is
[three times](https://chromium.googlesource.com/v8/v8.git/+/refs/heads/main/src/heap/heap.cc#328)
the size of semi-space,

> so the memory consumption is tripled when semi-space size increased,

Reviewer 5: It might be alarming to users as they would think that it's the heap size that's tripled.

```suggestion
an increase of 1 MiB to semi-space will triple and cause the heap size to increase by 3 MiB.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd phrase it as saying the option applies to each of the three individual semi spaces.

(It's really just two but then you have to explain that it's N for the large object nursery and 2*N for the normal object nursery and that's just getting into the weeds.)

Apropos links to code: can you use stable links, i.e., links to a specific tag or commit instead of a branch name?

> but the throughput improvement depends on your workload

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The throughput improvement depends on your workload
```

(see [#42511](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).

The default value is
16 MiB for 64-bit systems and 8 MiB for 32-bit systems.
To get the best configuration for your application,
you should try different max-semi-space-size values
when running benchmarks for your application.

For example, benchmark on a 64-bit systems:

```bash
for MiB in 16 32 64 128; do

>     node --max_semi_space_size=$MiB index.js

Reviewer 4: typo?
```suggestion
    node --max-semi-space-size=$MiB index.js
```

Reviewer 5: Good find! @JialuZhang-intel might have missed that in my previous review, https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/42575#discussion_r865561728.
